= Guard::RSpec

RSpec guard allows to automatically & intelligently launch specs when files are modified.

- Compatible with RSpec 1.x & RSpec 2.x
- Tested on Ruby 1.8.6, 1.8.7 & 1.9.2.

== Install

Please be sure to have {Guard}[https://github.com/guard/guard] installed before continue.

Install the gem:

    $ gem install guard-rspec

Add it to your Gemfile (inside test group):

    gem 'guard-rspec'

Add guard definition to your Guardfile by running this command:

    $ guard init rspec

== Usage

Please read {Guard usage doc}[https://github.com/guard/guard#readme]

== Guardfile

RSpec guard can be really adapted to all kind of projects.

=== Standard RubyGem project

    guard 'rspec' do
      watch(%r{^spec/.+_spec\.rb})
      watch(%r{^lib/(.+)\.rb})     { |m| "spec/lib/#{m[1]}_spec.rb" }
      watch('spec/spec_helper.rb') { "spec" }
    end

=== Typical Rails app

    guard 'rspec' do
      watch('spec/spec_helper.rb')                       { "spec" }
      watch('config/routes.rb')                          { "spec/routing" }
      watch('app/controllers/application_controller.rb') { "spec/controllers" }
      watch(%r{^spec/.+_spec\.rb})
      watch(%r{^app/(.+)\.rb})                           { |m| "spec/#{m[1]}_spec.rb" }
      watch(%r{^lib/(.+)\.rb})                           { |m| "spec/lib/#{m[1]}_spec.rb" }
      watch(%r{^app/controllers/(.+)_(controller)\.rb})  { |m| ["spec/routing/#{m[1]}_routing_spec.rb", "spec/#{m[2]}s/#{m[1]}_#{m[2]}_spec.rb", "spec/acceptance/#{m[1]}_spec.rb"] }
    end

Please read {Guard doc}[https://github.com/guard/guard#readme] for more information about the Guardfile DSL.

== Options

By default, Guard::RSpec automatically detect your RSpec version (with the <tt>spec_helper.rb</tt> syntax or with Bundler) but you can force the version with the <tt>:version</tt> option:

    guard 'rspec', :version => 2 do
      ...
    end

You can pass any of the standard RSpec CLI options using the <tt>:cli</tt> option:

    guard 'rspec', :cli => "--color --format nested --fail-fast --drb" do
      ...
    end

Former <tt>:color</tt>, <tt>:drb</tt>, <tt>:fail_fast</tt> and <tt>:formatter</tt> options are thus deprecated and have no effect anymore.

=== List of available options:

    :version => 1              # force use RSpec version 1, default: 2
    :cli => "-c -f doc"        # pass arbitrary RSpec CLI arguments, default: "-f progress"
    :bundler => false          # don't use "bundle exec" to run the RSpec command, default: true
    :rvm => ['1.8.7', '1.9.2'] # directly run your specs on multiple Rubies, default: nil
    :notification => false     # don't display Growl (or Libnotify) notification after the specs are done running, default: true

== Formatters

The <tt>:formatter</tt> option has been removed since CLI arguments can be passed through the <tt>:cli</tt> option. If you want to use the former Instafail formatter, you need to use <tt>rspec-instafail</tt> gem instead:

    # in your Gemfile
    gem 'rspec-instafail'

    # in your Guardfile
    guard 'rspec, :cli => "-r rspec/instafail -f RSpec::Instafail" do
      ...
    end

Default formatter is the <tt>progress</tt> formatter (same as RSpec default).

== Development

- Source hosted at {GitHub}[https://github.com/guard/guard-rspec]
- Report issues/Questions/Feature requests on {GitHub Issues}[https://github.com/guard/guard-rspec/issues]

Pull requests are very welcome! Make sure your patches are well tested. Please create a topic branch for every separate change
you make.

=== Testing

Please run <tt>rake spec:prepare_fixtures</tt> once before launching specs.

== Authors

{Thibaud Guillaume-Gentil}[https://github.com/thibaudgg]
